The Bitter is a personal project that I began preparation work in the Spring semester of 2025. Here are my thoughts and the general concept of what I planned to make.

### THE BITTER...

The main focus of my initial stages is to refine my skills in technical look development (starting with concept art. By learning different 3D process, real-time rendering, shaders) and developing a story (historical research, relevant media), I hope to encapsulate a general atmosphere over making a fully fledged game.

I’ve been recently very impressed and interested in stylized 3D models and animation. A lot of that work is done with simple or complex shaders that I want to be able to dig my hands into. I’ve created shaders for simple things and have done procedural animations using primitives, but I really want to be able to bridge that stylistic gap between 2D and 3D work in this new project. I would have also been willing to just create a 3D animation using similar shaders, but I also really enjoy interactivity in media, and wanted to shoot for a sort of gamey aesthetic without necessarily making a full game. Character development, researching history, and storytelling are also passions of mine, and I haven’t been able to expand too deeply on a story I’ve created at CMU so far.  So, I wanted to develop a work in which I’d be able to do those things, while still creating something with my technical strengths in CS.


This project will intersperse a 2.5D interactive walking simulator with choice-based graphic novel cutscenes to create an interactive horror story in Unity. Most of the graphics will be 3D modeled, rigged, and textured in Maya, using shaders to create a 2D visual aesthetic that mirrors my graphic novel snapshot. Cutscenes will either be higher fidelity posed 3D models or 2D illustrations.

## SUMMARY
The year is 1852. We are introduced to the story of the royal warship HMS CARAPAX, which has been ordered to turn back five months into Captain Raskolnikov’s fruitless search for a mythical beast. Somewhere amid the North Pacific, while in low hopes and many days’ journey from any land, she stumbles upon a distress signal from a grounded ship, the SS BUGBEAR.

Dr. Almeida and Mr. Val, medical officers of the CARAPAX, are tasked with boarding the BUGBEAR to rescue her survivors – only to find themselves, too, stranded within her creaking remains.

## PLOT

Dr. Almeida has strange dreams of sirens and goes onto the deck for fresh air. While there, he catches sight of a ship in distress in the distance. Though the crew is in low spirits, they adjust course to investigate the stranded ship and help the crew. In the meantime, Mr. Val, who is taking care of the fevered Captain Ralskonikov, hears his deluded warnings of disaster to come.

The CARAPAX sends a rowboat of men, including Dr. Almeida and Mr. Val to board the American military vessel BUGBEAR and investigate. They find that a horrible illness has befallen the ship, covering crew members in lesions and sending them into fits of violent madness. The sick are currently tended to by a Dr. Nerium and Nurse Gala. The doctors discuss their theories on the illness and consider a plan of rescue. There are whisperings from soldiers that the illness and other unlucky occurrences are because there is a woman on the ship, causing bad luck and malaise, a rumor that Dr. Almeida scoffs at. Some terribly afflicted crew burst from their restraints and attack a member of the CARAPAX, causing conflict amongst the rescuers.

Meanwhile, a terrible storm quickly brews around the BUGBEAR, sending everybody to the lower decks for cover. Mr. Val follows Nurse Gala to the cargo bay to search the ship for supplies, and finds it partially flooded, and very dark. There’s something about the place that gives him the spooks. He flees upwards and pleads with Dr. Almeida that they must return to the CARAPAX once the storm subsides, while Dr. Almeida maintains that they owe a duty to save as many lives of the stranded crew as they can. However, when the storm does subside, there is no sign of the CARAPAX anywhere. The “rescuers” from the CARAPAX are trapped, too.

Some of these men revolt, and suddenly show signs of the manifesting illness. Scared for his life, Mr. Val shoots one. A full on massacre breaks out, with the afflicted crew turning into grotesque barnacle-covered masses of flesh and ripping survivors apart. Dr. Almeida demands more information from Dr. Nerium, insisting he knows more information about the affliction than he lets on. He admits that this is a phenomenon he’s been researching, and that he knows how to survive – by being the final member of the crew alive, and feeding the rest to the “Thing” – but that somebody, Nurse Gala, has established a symbiotic relationship with it first, perhaps from a bitter place in her heart after being mistreated. Or perhaps, she was simply an unwitting, but fundamental cause of bad luck. Of course, this is very muddled information that Dr. Almeida believes is unscientific superstition. However, something unknown is most certainly wrong aboard the BUGBEAR. Dr. Almeida reveals, perhaps only to the audience, that she was a woman disguised as a man all along, but still abides by her purpose as a doctor: to save lives, and simply could not do so if she did not masquerade as a man.

Dr. Nerium leads the two to confront Nurse Gala, but instead passes Dr. Almeida over to the nurse as a prisoner. The two had been working together to feed infected crew to something in the cargo bay for a while now – it’s the huge, decaying heart of a siren, one that has attached itself to the bottom of the ship. A betrayal! However, Dr. Nerium knows that only one can really survive the ordeal. (Though what kind of survival this entails is… unknown.) Meanwhile, Mr. Val is hiding in a storage crate, and realizes that he’s coming under the effects of the infection.
Because this project is meant to be a horror game, the final survivor depends on what choices the player picks and what characters the player is most sympathetic to.
